////Cluster of Questions about MongoDB////
####MongoDB as data base engine####
1.What is MongoDB?
It's a document database which provides high performance, high availability and easy scalability, and 
flexibility, and an advanced indexing and query model. it stores the data in BSON format which is a 
binary representation of JSON and it contains more data types than JSON. This means that instead of 
saving the data in registers, it saves the data in documents.

###Basic Commands###
3.What is "namespace" in MongoDB?
ongoDB stores BSON (Binary Interchange and Structure Object Notation) objects in the collection. 
The concatenation of the collection name and database name is called a namespace. 
4.What does ‘namespace’ refer in MongoDB?
Collections in MongoDB store in BSON objects. So if we concatenate the 
database name that we are using and also the collection name in our 
program with a certain period in between is what we call as ‘namespace’.
5.When do we use Namespace in MongoDB?
During sequencing of the names of the database and collection name Namespace is used.

###Usage Of MongoDB###
6. Where can we use MongoDB?
-We use MongoDB as the primary data store for operational applications with real-time requirements. 
MongoDB is fit to use for 60%-80% of the applications that are developing in today’s world.
7. Does MongoDb require a lot of RAM?
MondoDB uses the free memory that is on the computer as its cache..
8. When should we use MongoDB?
If you can represent your data in a form of a bunch of documents, MongoBD is the option.
9. When should not we use Mongo DB?
If you would rather imagine your data as a bunch of interconnected tables, MongoDB would not be the right option.
10. Working as an analytic tool?
MongoDB provides a custom map/reduce implementation for those simple relationships on documents or parameters.
11. Advantages using MongoDB?
        1.Document can have any structure within one collection.
	2. Good speed
	3. Good means for replication
12. Where can MongoDB be used?
although it is often said that NoSQL databases have a narrow scope of application, 
MongoDB can be used in many of the projects we develop today.
Any application that needs to store semi-structured data can use MongoDB.

###MongoDB and SQL Database Manager###
13. How is MongoDB better than other SQL databases?
ongoDB allows a highly flexible and scalable document structure. 
For example, one data document in MongoDB can have five columns and the other one in the same collection can have ten columns. 
Also, MongoDB database are faster as compared to SQL databases due to efficient indexing and storage techniques.
14. Does MongoDB support SQL?
Not directly, no. However, MongoDB does support a rich query language of 
its own.
15. What are differences between MongoDB and MySQL?
Both these databases are free and open source.
The speed in which your queries are being processed in MongoDB is fast 
as compared to MySQL. The way in which data is being represented in 
MongoDB and MySQL is also very different.
16. How does MongoDB address SQL or Query injection?
As a client program assembles a query in MongoDB, it builds a BSON 
object, not a string. Thus traditional SQL injection attacks are not a 
problem. More details and some nuances are covered below.
17. MongoDB VS MySQL
It depends on the problem you face, if you have a database with a structure already defined,
then MySQL is for you, if your database does not have an apparent order then MongoDb is what you need. 
the difference is that currently most data banks are presented without any specific order so 
mongoDb is having more presence.
18. What is difference between MongoDB and SQL or NoSQL between SQL?
In MongoDB, development is simplified as its documents map naturally to modern, object-oriented programming languages. 
In SQL, we need object-relational mapping (ORM) layer that translates objects in code to relational tables. Also,In MongoDB, 
each document can store data with different attributes from other documents. With JSON documents, we can add new attributes 
when we need to, without having to alter a centralized database schema. But in a relational database, this causes downtime 
and significant performance overhead.
19. MongoDB's databases are great when you usually know where your data is. With Mongo, the related data is either nested in 
the parent data or it has primary/foreign keys. In the other hand, if you are need to use aggregate functions and feel the need 
to query data in complex ways that using Mongo can't achieved through simple relations, use MySQL.

###Collections and Databases###
20. What is collection in MongoDB?
A collection is a group of documents. If a document is the MongoDB analog of a row in a relational database, then collection is 
the analog to a table. Collections have dynamic schemas. This means that the documents within a single collection can have any 
number of different shapes. 
For example, both the following documents can be stored in a single collection.
21. How do I create a database and a collection?
If a database does not exist, MongoDB creates the database when you 
first store data for that database.
If a collection does not exist, MongoDB creates the collection when you 
first store data for that collection.
22. How do I define or alter the collection schema?
You do not need to specify a schema for a collection in MongoDB. 
Although it is common for the documents in a collection to have a 
largely homogeneous structure.
23. How does an index build affect database performance?
When building an index on a collection, the database that holds the 
collection is unavailable for read or write operations until the index 
build completes. If you need to build a large index, consider building 
the index in the background.
24. How to filter data of a collection by date?
Assuming that you do not have the date field in the Collection, with the ObjectId you 
can have the date that the application was registered you can see it in the following way:
> ObjectId.getTimestamp()
25. What is a Namespace in MongoDB?
A Namespace is the concatenation of the database name and collection name. For e.g. school.students with school as the database and students as the collection.
26. How does a collection differ from a table?
Instead of tables, a MongoDB database stores its data in collections.
A collection holds one or more BSON documents. Documents are analogous
to records or rowsin a relational database table. Each document has one or more
fields; fields are similar to the columns in a relational database table.
27. How does MongoDB provide consistency?
MongoDB uses the reader-writer locks, allowing simultaneous readers to access any
supply like a database or any collection. But always offers private access to
singles writes.
28. How many indexes by default we can create for a new collection in MongoDB?
By default, MongoDB created the _id collection for each and every collection.
29. How do I define or alter the collection schema?
You do not need to specify a schema for a collection in MongoDB. Although it is common for the documents in a collection to have a largely homogeneous structure, 
it is not a requirement; i.e. documents in a single collection do not need to have the same set of fields. 
The data type for a field can differ across documents in a collection as well.
30. When to use a single collection on MongoDB?
Almost never, applications have structure, and deal with data containing structure even if that structure is some form of meta-structure.
31.Collection per day or Database per day?
The better to fit is a collection per day for the map/reduce work to summarize the data.
 
###Indexes###
32. What are indexes in MongoDB?
Indexes are special structures in MongoDB, which stores a small portion of the data set in an easy to traverse form. 
Ordered by the value of the field specified in the index, the index stores the value of a specific field or set of fields.
33. Does MongoDB handle caching?
es. MongoDB keeps most recently used data in RAM. If you have created 
indexes for your queries and your working data set fits in RAM, MongoDB 
serves all queries from memory.
34. How do I see what indexes exist on a collection?
To list a collection’s indexes, use the db.collection.getIndexes() 
method.
35. Explain the situation when an index does not fit into RAM?
When an index is too huge to fit into RAM, then MongoDB reads the index, which is
faster than reading RAM because the indexes easily fit into RAM if the server has
got RAM for indexes along with the remaining set.
36. How many indexes by default we can create for a new collection in MongoDB?
By default, MongoDB created the _id collection for each and every collection.
37. Explain what are indexes in MongoDB?
Indexes are special structures in MongoDB, which stores a small portion of the data set in an easy to traverse form. Ordered by 
the value of the field specified in the index, the index stores the value of a specific field or set of fields.


